# Case classes

Problem: for lightweight classes we often need to retype alot of boiler plate code

1. companion objects
2. equals
3. hashCode
4. toString

Case Classes are an ideal solution to this. Case classes let us define a class and a companion object in one go.

They are simple to write but what does it do?

1. class parameters are promoted to fields
2. Results in a sensible toString
3. equals and hashCode are implemented out of the box
4. Case classes have handy copy methods.
5. Case classes have companion objects
6. Case classes are serializable - handy in AKKA (sending serializable messages through a network)
7. Case classes have extractor patterns. They can be used in pattern matching (powerful scala feature)

### 1. Fields

```
  case class Person(name: String, age: Int)
  val jim= new Person("Jim", 34)
  //if it wasn't a case class we couldn't do this
println(jim.name)

```

### 2. toString method

```
  println(jim.toString) // (jim, 34), if not results in 34097349jdfhdsdkf238
  println(jim)
```

### 3. Equals comes out of the box

If we didn't have equals the below statements would point to different references and show false

```
    val Jim2 = new Person("Jim", 34)
    println(jim == Jim2)
```

### 4. Copy

Copy creates a new instance of a case class. Copies receive parameters, so we can copy the class but only change one value if we want.

```
  val jim3 = jim.copy(age = 45)
  println(jim3)
```

### 5. Companion object

Companion methods have handy factory methods.
The subtle difference is that we didn't use the word new as we instantiated the companion object.

```
    val thePerson = Person
    val mary = Person("Mary", 23)
```

### 6. pending

### 7. pending

---

### Can also create case objects

See below example

```
  case object UnitedKingdom{
    def name: String = "The UK of GB and NI"
  }
```

## Case classes summarry

Quick lightweight data structures with little boilerplate
Companions are already implemented
sensible equals, hashcode and toString
Allows for auto promotion of parameters to fields
Allows for cloning
Allows for case objects

# Abstract data types

### Abstract classes

Abstract data types are implemented later. We have to overwrite the abstract fields in the constructor.
Although we don't have to implicitely use the keyword override.

example below

```
abstract class Animal {
  val creatureType: String
  def eat: Unit
}

class Dog extends Animal{
override val creatureType: String = "Canine"
def eat: Unit = println("crunch crunch")
}

```

### Traits

Traits are the ultimate abstract data type.
We can stack multiple traits together.

eg.

```
trait Carnivore{
  def eat (animal:Animal): Unit
  val prefferedMeal: String = "fresh meat"
}

trait coldBlooded


  class Crocodile extends Animal with Carnivore with ColdBlooded {
    val creatureType: String = "Croc"
    def eat: Unit = println("nomnomnom")
    def eat(animal: Animal) : Unit = println(s"I'm a creocodile and i'm eating a ${animal.creatureType}")
  }

```

## Traits VS abstract classes?

abstract classes and traits can have abstract and non ambstract members

1. Traits do not have constructor parameters.
2. You can only inherit one class, but you can inherit multiple traits in the same class.
3. Traits give behavior, abstract classes are types of "things"

## Type Hierarchy

- We can instatiante types and override fields or methods on the spot
- We need to pass in the required constructor arguments if needed.
- We need to implement all abstract fields or methods
- This works for traits and classes (abstract or not)
