# Generics

We want to write collections that can store certain data types when we use them.
We can make these methods reusable by creating them with a type [T]

The add method will take a type B, which is a super type of A.
If to a list of A, I add a B, it will turn into a list of B

```
  class myList[+A]{
    will use the type A
def add[B >:A](element: B): myList[B] = ???

 A = CAT
 B = Animal
 So out list of cats will get turned into a list of animals which the addition of an animal
We do want variant problems
  }
```

## Variance problem

```
  class Animal
  class Cat extends Animal
  class Dog extends Animal
```

We have to ask: can a list of cats extend a list of Animals?

1. Yes = Covariance
2. No = Invariance
3. HELL NO = Contravariance

### Covariance

Yes List[Cat] extends List[Animal] = COVARIANCE

```
class CovariantList[+A]
  val animal: Animal = new Cat
  val animalList: CovariantList[Animal] = new CovariantList[Cat]
```
If we have a list of animals which is a list of cats and we add a dog to it, the list will become a list of animals. Adding a dog to a list of cats will make the list more generic.

### Invariance 

```
  class InvariantList[A]
  val invariantAnimalList: InvariantList[Animal] = new InvariantList[Animal]
```

### Contravariance

below makes sense, a trainer of animals could train a cat  opposite of covariance

```
class Trainer[-A]
val trainer: Trainer[Cat] = new Trainer[Animal]
```

## Bounded types 

What is it? A type bound is a way to add restrictions to the type parameters.
When passing a type to a class we can limit what types we want to allow. 

There are three kinds of bounds

1. Upper bound
2. Lower bound
3. Combined 

### Upper bound

An upper type bound constraints a type A to be a subtype of B. The Scala notation looks like this:

```
class SomeClass[A <: B]
```

A is a sub-type of B. So for the operation to be allowed, A must be a subtype of B.

See example below 

```
trait Eatable
class Vegetable extends Eatable
class Meat extends Eatable
class Potato extends Vegetable
class Beef extends Meat
class Orange extends Eatable
class Vegan[A <: Vegetable]
class Carnivore[A <: Meat]
class Food[A <: Eatable]
val vegan = new Vegan[Potato] // works fine
val mixed = new Carnivore[Potato] // error - type argument doesn't conform to type parameter bound
val all = new Food[Beef] // all good
```

### Explanation 

As seen on a few examples above, the mechanism is pretty easy to use. The class Vegan, requires its type parameter to a subtype of Vegetable, which is exactly what Potato is. On the other hand, class Carnivore requires its parameter type to be a subtype of Meat, which Potato isn't hence the error. The Food class accepts any class that extends Eatable trait - a Beef is one of them.

### Lower bound

A lower type bounds works as one would expect — it limits the type A to be a supertype of B. The notation looks like this:

```
class OtherClass[A >:  B]
```

See example below

```
trait Eatable

class Vegetable extends Eatable
class Meat extends Eatable

class Potato extends Vegetable
class Beef extends Meat
class Orange extends Eatable

class Stew[A >: Potato]
class BBQ[A >: Beef]
class Juice[A >: Orange]

val stew = new Stew[Vegetable] // works fine
val BBQ = new BBQ[Meat] // fine as well
val juice = new Juice[Potato] // error
```

The lower type bound is similarly easy to use. We specify three more concrete classes: Stew, BBQ, and Juice. Stew requires its type parameter to a supertype of Potato, for BBQ the type parameter should be a supertype of Beef and for Juice - supertype of Orange. First to instantiations work fine, but the last one fails - the Potato is by no means a supertype of Orange, therefore an error is thrown.

### Upper & Lower bound

Last example is actually a combination of previous two. Scala allows to define both lower and upper bounds in the same time. The notation for this looks like this:

We can combine the above 

notation: 

```
class LastClass[A <: B >: C]
```

In this example, the type A, has to be a subtype of B, while also being a supertype of C. As complicated as it may sound, it will be easier to understand using our 'food' examples:

```
trait Eatable

class Vegetable extends Eatable
class Meat extends Eatable

class Potato extends Vegetable
class Beef extends Meat
class Orange extends Eatable

class MarisPiper extends Potato
class Wagyu extends Beef
class Curacao extends Orange

class RedMeat[A <: Meat >: Wagyu]
class RootVegetable[A <: Vegetable >: MarisPiper]

val stew = new RedMeat[Beef] // all good
val BBQ = new RootVegetable[Potato] // works fine
val juice = new RootVegetable[MarisPiper] // error
```

This example should be fairly self-explanatory — we have two classes that use both upper and lower type bounds for their type parameters: RedMeat and RootVegetable. From the classes defined, the Beef works for the first one, and Potato for the second one. The Meat doesn't meet the upper type bound and Wagyu the lower type bound for RedMeat class type parameters.